---
title: Diogenes Laertius
author: Monte
date: '2019-05-05'
weight: 2
slug: diogenes-laertius
categories: []
tags: []
image:
  caption: ''
  focal_point: ''
---

Diogenes Laertius

Diogenes Laertius is virtually unknown as a person, beginning with his
name---whether it should be written "Diogenes Laertius" or "Laertius
Diogenes". The dates and places of his birth and death are also unknown.

Laertius wrote epigrammatic poetry. A collection of his poems entitled
*Pammetros*, which may have been published in his own lifetime, has been
lost. But some of these poems have survived because they were inserted
into the surviving work *Lives of Philosophers* (probably by a later
editor and not by Laertius himself).

Scholars have inferred from the sources he mentions (and fails to
mention) in Βίοι φιλοσόφων (Latin: *Vitae philosophorum*, thus *Lives of
Philosophers*) that Laertius probably worked in the first half of the
third century CE. This work has been aptly described by its recent
editor as "the earliest history of Greek philosophy to have come down to
us, constituting a valuable source of information about the lives and
doctrines of the major representatives of ancient philosophical schools
up to the 1^st^ century CE" (Dorandi 2015).

*The Lives of Philosophers* consists of ten books, all of which survive
(except the end of Book 7, the book on the Stoics). Two of the books are
devoted to individual philosophers: Plato (Book 3) and Epicurus (Book
10). The other books consist of multiple chapters, ranging from as few
as six (Book 5, devoted to Aristotle and his successors) to as many as
17 (Book 2, including the "succession" of so-called "Ionian"
philosophers, Axaminander, Anaximines, Anaxagoras, and Archelaus,
followed by Socrates and his successors, completed by Plato in Book 3
and the Academics in Book 4). The "Italian" succession begins in Book 8
with Pythagoras. Book 9 begins with the so-called "sporadic"
philosophers Heraclitus and Xenophanes (who apparently cannot be
affiliated with either the Ionian or Italian successions), followed by
Parmenides and his followers Melissus and Zeno, followed by Leucippus,
Democritus, Protagoras, Anaxarchus, Pyrrho, and ending with Pyrrho's
follower Timon.

Most of the chapters are structured to include the following information
about an individual philosopher: (1) name, patronym (father's name) and
loconym (birthplace); (2) teachers (real or supposed), (3) chronology
according to presumed time of flourishing and contemporaries, (4)
anecdotes about actions and behaviors that embody (or contradict)
professed philosophical views, (5) famous sayings (including maxims that
may have been synthesized by later authors), and (6) homonyms (lists of
other people with the same name). For some philosophers, Laertius also
provides lists of works (usually from library catalogues), wills
(usually considered genuine), and letters (usually considered spurious).

Laertius names a number of sources, including authors and titles of
earlier works on biographies and successions of philosophers, but the
issue of how many sources he actually used is a vexed one, as is the
nature of his processing and adaptation of his sources. Nevertheless,
Laertius' work is an indispensable source of information not only his
own earlier sources, but on several philosophers and philosophical
movements (especially Stoicism and Epicureanism).

Dorandi has recently produced a new and definitive edition of the Greek
text, based on his exhaustive study of the text and its transmission in
the middle ages and renaissance. English translations include a newer
one by Mensch and the older 2-volume Loeb by Hicks.  There are also translations into Spanish, French, Italian, and German are also noted in the [Bibliography](http://diogenet.ucsd.edu/bibliography/.)